If I believed Dr. Ford's memory about Kavanaugh were accurate, I would consider it a grave mistake to confirm him to the Supreme Court. Whether or not such an act in his youth should follow him for the rest of his life, the fact that he has denied it in the present would more than disqualify him: A man of integrity may have a rough past, but he will own it. This seems to be a no-brainer.

However, I've heard Kavanaugh protest his innocence, I've read of others attesting to his integrity, and I find it difficult to believe a man so utterly lacking in moral quality as he'd have to be if the rough past were compounded by persistent denial could have developed such a sterling reputation over the years. Moreover, in his protestations of innocence there has been nothing to suggest he's trying to paper over past questionable behavior, or downplay injuries he might have caused. His self-defense has gone far beyond mere denial that the event in question took place. He doesn't seem to be trying to get off on a technicality. He sounds like an innocent man whose name and family are being dragged through the mud.

Dr. Ford, likewise, was entirely convincing. Those who were already in her court before she testified publicly probably left wondering how anyone could possibly doubt her story and continue to believe Kavanaugh's.

The thing is, if Ford's recollection of the incident is accurate, then we have the problem of reconciling the resulting character of Kavanaugh--which would be far worse than merely having had a rough past--with his widely attested reputation and the passion and apparent sincerity with which he defends it. I suppose it might be easy to just dismiss all of that with a wave of the hand, if one never liked him in the first place. But I think it's not necessary to believe one party and label the other as a liar. I'm inclined to accept the honesty of both.

If both were being honest, the apparent resolution is that one of the two is simply mistaken in some respect. Is it more plausible that Dr. Ford is mistaken in recalling Kavanaugh as her assailant, or that Kavanaugh is mistaken in denying that he ever engaged in such behavior?

